some of you will have heard me say in
interviews and livestreams in Q&A
sessions that after the disastrous
events in Chiang Mai during writer never
made an effort to reconcile with me
never made an effort to apologize to me
or patch things up but what have you
that was true at the time that I said it
but as you can see from this email on
screen just now recently he sent me some
email with a more constructive or
cordial tone and I was very much
surprised that as you can see here he
says that he has tried to delete his old
videos that were denouncing me and he's
here offering to go ahead and delete
more videos now of course the damage has
been done of drawing attention this
recently that I still do deal with many
thousands probably tens of thousands of
people who have a negative impression of
me to say the least
because of his campaign of defamation
against my character the allegations he
made about me and if you don't already
know that story you'll hear a little bit
more about that the rest of this video
as I'm including the interview I gave
with Gawker Media but obviously this is
a significant change in his behavior and
I appreciate that circled in red on
screen he asks how is Taiwan compared to
Thailand and I did write back telling
him that although Taiwan is probably the
most successful country in the world for
veganism the number of vegan restaurants
even in small towns is amazing it's
something of a hollow victory because we
only see the success of veganism here as
a diet not as a social and political
movement the whole thing was just a set
of inherently implausible allegations
you know made in this over-the-top
manner that he was gonna beat me up and
take me to a police station and then if
the police failed to be appropriately
brutal they would brutalize me
themselves so you know now again if we
were talking about a gang of neo-nazis I
think you wouldn't be writing this
article if this was behavior from a
group of neo-nazis you might just shrug
and say well that's neo-nazis for you
but these are vegans these are people
who
we preach that they would not hurt a
snail I would say this is a place for
drama or comedy to call people say
something HIV or someone trying to
[ __ ] keep then you know when that
didn't sound dog's missing and lasting
in Cambodia snorting cocaine this is
funny random [ __ ] it's definitely
slander that's just this is wrong well I
mean you say that you say that but
there's several instances you know of
you slandering people I'm gonna find
hard to forget that she tried to call me
you want a pedophile or chasing 50 no
girls well this is pretty hard to forget
you know I'm pretty forgiving first I
couldn't see myself again clearly but
she's gonna have to do it she's basic on
tequila night of the four enemies that
she started not sure if I'm gonna court
either you're not just you really think
you'll got you you would if you had to
you would take her to court for that
it's Seward for damages ya mean she's
gonna continue that myth that I'm
grooming girls to six and I just
obtained but I've never ever on my life
of a mother's life ever had sex with an
underage a reason matters claims to the
audience which is a big audience the
female audience that's pretty damaging
my brain my reputations yeah what I mean
what other choice do I have if I don't
pay in a call it makes me look guilty he
hasn't reached out to you since well no
he's continued making Angry defamatory
statements about me like on YouTube and
other places so he has made statements
to the public you know including me
about what a terrible person I am that
never stopped but no he's never spoken
to me privately so that's a distinction
but know that the defamation has not
stopped
you know he made a video that was
allegedly apologizing to me and the
whole thing from start to finish it's
just one defamation after another so you
know as again this is one of those
things even if you only heard one side
of the story you would know he was lying
because of the highly improv is a torii
way in which he lurches from one set of
allegations to the next so you know as
soon as he's done saying I'm a pedophile
he's saying that I'm a wife beater and
again even if you didn't hear my side of
the story just the nature of the
applications is not credible you know so
that's that's what he's done he's gone
from one set of allegations to the next
he's I was sort of flipping through his
ask durianrider forum and he attributed
his making violent threats somebody
asked him a question of saying like I'm
so disappointed that you've been making
all these violent threats and not
referring specifically to you but he
attributed it to roid rage and I was so
I was wondering if he had reached out to
you to say anything about that no I'm
sorry he's a really despicable I mean
it's one it's one set of excuses after
another with him and you know he's done
the same with the sex scandals and
everything else but no I mean next week
he'll make up a different I mean before
his excuse was that he had been staying
up until 2:00 a.m. and only sleeping for
three hours or you know he's made
different excuses but no there's never
been any sincere apology there's never
no no sorry sorry if that disappoints
you but no no he's been true to
character you know I mean yeah that it's
not disappointing um so where did he I
think you might have addressed this but
where did he get the idea that you
contacted teenage girls online he just
made it up he made up all bunch of
nonsense now I mean the other thing is
even even in the screenshots of our
conversation I pointed out to him then
like what is the meaning of the word
contacted so like for example on and I
said this I said this to him directly on
our communication on my youtube channel
I have an interview with an 18 year old
University student about political
activism and there's nothing
inappropriate was nothing sexy and I
give very good advice to that eighteen
year old
you know about school and yeah I either
sound boring but when I talk to
teenagers which I do I tell them to stay
in school and stay out of jail and
durianrider says the opposite he's
telling teenagers to drop out of school
and do a lot of things that can put you
in jail so I mean I'm not ashamed of the
communications I've had with teenagers
again
some of them on my youtube channel so
this is having like an hour-long
discussion with an 18 year old and she
was asking me you know what's the best
way to organize a political movement and
how to agitate for social change so
totally aboveboard so you know have I
contacted teenagers what is the meaning
of the word contacted you know this is
this is a ridiculous allegation now
beyond that durianrider himself contacts
teenagers all the time he has a much
younger following than I do
I mean if you see my channel my stuff is
not aimed at a teenage audience and a
lot of his stuff is so he has a video up
right now where he's talking to a 16
year old on camera I don't think there's
anything inherently evil about you know
an adult talking younger children
unfortunate I do actually think during
writers advice is is pretty terrible
when he talks to younger people you can
see that for yourself you can track your
own conclusions but no I mean the the
nature of the allegation to begin with
was intentionally vague and a bus Kotori
and evasive so you know what do you mean
contacting teenagers I had I contacted
any teenagers in Chiangmai no I'd only
been in Chiangmai for two days or
possibly three days when he made the
allegations so the number of people had
talked to was incredibly small but was
just like the whole thing was just a set
of inherently implausible allegations
you know made in this over-the-top
manner that he was gonna beat me up to
take me to a police station and then if
the police failed to be appropriately
brutal they would brutalize me
themselves so you know now again if we
were talking about a gang of neo-nazis I
think you wouldn't be writing this
article if this was behavior from a
group of neo-nazis you might just shrug
and say well that's neo-nazis for you if
this is from a group of communist
extremists you might shrug your
shoulders and say well that's par for
the course but these are vegans these
are people who literally preach that
they would not hurt a snail
right and this is the way he's
conducting himself in this movement so
if you've seen my videos I wax you know
philosophical about this but yeah this
is a you know egregiously damning and
this is in many ways I think a turning
point for the movement where people have
to stop wake up and really think about
what we've become and I saw that when I
was there it's had a mat this had a much
bigger emotional impact on other people
that did on me because a lot of people
had to look into the mirror and say is
this who we are is this really what
we've become because this is supposed to
be veganism not supposed to be a bunch
of neo-nazi thugs right what why were
you in Chiangmai were you at the bike
fest or were you just hot to just happen
to be there like what what drew you
there good question I have answered it
before but I'm happy to answer it again
so I've been in and attaching my for
more than 10 years unlike everyone else
in this equation I speak the language I
speak Thai with a heavy lotion accent I
lived in Thailand Laos Cambodia for
years I was a real scholar a real
specialist in that field I realised my
CV is boring but you can read you know I
sent you a copy of my resume you can
look that over
I studied those languages I study those
histories I studied that political
politics of that region both ancient and
modern I did a ton of research at a
humanitarian work NGO work whatever you
want to say I have a meaningful
connection to the history politics and
languages of that region including the
city of Chiang Mai itself and that is
deeply threatening those people because
they don't they're shallow hippie
tourists doing self-indulgent nonsense
so that is part of the tension of the
situation I already knew the city of
chiang mai had been there before why I
arrived when I didn't left and I did
which had nothing to do with the
festival was that I had a job in China
and couldn't Ming China where I am right
now and I was signed up to start
language classes that I'm taking right
now and I needed to do paperwork and I
needed to go to a hospital some of the
paperwork is done at a hospital get my
Chinese visa and order etc so there were
really practically for me there were
about two ways I could do that one would
be going by a Chiang Mai the other would
be going by a nan Chi and VN Chen
I can get into details that are kind of
meaningless but the reality was I had a
list of practical reasons to be in
Shanghai for just a couple of days
Chiang Mai has a Chinese embassy as a
good Hospital that I know where they
both speak English and speak Thai I
could speak enough Thai to get by at
that Hospital where I could get all that
stuff done and I could then get a direct
flight from Chiang Mai to couldn't Ming
which is exactly what I did above and
beyond that I had fans in Chiang Mai
durianrider isn't the only one with fans
in Chiang Mai there were people in shame
I wanted to meet me and so I went there
that was another reason to be in Chiang
Mai rather than taking a slightly
different route going from Bangkok to
could Ming and I did meet up with them I
never attended a single rato for events
I never gatecrashed I never showed up at
anything uninvited I created my own
events where I met people who already
knew me on the internet and wanted to
meet with me it was it I never once
showed up at any of Durham Ryder were
free Leigh's events I never instigated
anything in any way in that sense but
simply the fact that I exist is a deep
challenge to their authority I've
mentioned some of the reasons for that
already I mean you know if you dig
around the other reasons have to do with
the pseudoscience of their diet I'm one
of the only people who came out strongly
and said on the issue of Crohn's disease
Crohn's disease is an incurable disease
translation it is a disease for which
there is no known cure
and what durianrider has said about
Crohn's disease is false and he he was
deeply threatened by that and he made a
video directly responding to me and
denouncing me on that several months ago
I'm sorry I forget how many months ago
that is you can you can get the date if
you need it by searching his YouTube
channel just search for Crohn's disease
and you'll you'll see the video easily
enough where he again claims he credits
so on that kind of issue like you know I
also clarified they claim that garlic
contains a neurotoxin that is false I
don't know if you've ever eaten garlic
garlic does not contain a neurotoxin so
there were various hard issues of
science as well as politics on which
I've really been a very different voice
within the vegan movement as I like to
say I mean you know real people do real
things so yeah the fact that I exist at
all is in some way a threat to him and
they responded accordingly but no I
actually I actually wasn't there to
instigate the kind of
- Chris conflict that durianrider
himself did instigate I know it so you
mentioned that it's a kind of a small
community in Chiang Mai from your
experience can you sort of describe who
you who you know of living there like
what what that whole situation is as you
know it in terms of vegans vegan expats
living in Chiang Mai okay okay yeah look
there are there are three types of
people there okay there are people who
are so young that this really is tragic
and this really is a cult-like movement
that's gonna devastate them for the rest
of their lives okay and you can be as
polite about that as you want to be but
I talked to a young woman who dropped
out of high school and moved to Chiang
Mai to join this social circle shall we
say now let's let's not use the word
cult okay you know you tell me
anyone who dropped out of high school
and doesn't and you're in earnest of
what this isn't gonna impact the rest of
your life I know I know two examples I
think both young females who dropped out
of high school I think so maybe I'm mr.
Minton but in one one for sure who I
interviewed on my own channel so you can
see that interview on my channel and we
talked about it and she's very
philosophical about it the one I
interviewed my channel other people
dropped out of college other people just
decided not to go to college so there's
some people at a young age where that's
what impacts them and you tell me what
future
they really have I hope they wake up
some of them do some of them turn their
lives around and get a new perspective
and take on a new direction others don't
okay then there are middle-aged people
who earned it you know like they had a
normal job up to a point and for some
reason they fell into this ideology and
sacrificed everything join the social
circle now there's an example there's a
channel called Joe vegan so does Jo E
space vegan and he and his wife talk
honestly about the fact they're in our
disillusion they're not true believers
they used the word cult they say they're
no longer called members but they just
fell in love with this idea they quit
their jobs they sold all their furniture
they bought bicycles and they ran away
to Chiangmai I think just one year ago I
mean was last year's festival they were
true believers in this and then they had
a kind of
disillusionment experience where they
woke up and they themselves say like you
know they makes videos talking about
this what were we thinking like what
what was our plan for the future but
those are mature adults I I believe
they're over 30 years old them I'm
guessing their age
these are aged people so even then it's
kind of sad but the consequences are
less serious and then finally there are
people who are more of a retirement age
who are making this choice and I guess
for them the consequences are the least
serious because you know I guess you
know I guess for them going on permanent
vacation maybe has no such repercussions
however I've got to tell you something
um I I thought my own grandmother was a
bad person because when she retired she
just decided to play tennis and
basically not to give a damn about the
real world or its problems I think that
we all should do our part to make the
world a better place and I think we
should work damn hard to figure out what
our part is that's one of the reasons
why I'm vegan and even if you're not
vegan I think you should feel positive
motivated make the world a better place
and what is so sick about the ego trip
behind this permanent vacation cult is
that they pretend they're saving the
world they pretend they're making the
world a better place when really they're
living a life of total self-indulgence
and that's the incongruous contradiction
at the heart of this for all three age
groups yeah so I want to actually take a
step back for a second you said in your
interview with the light twins that
suing durianrider is not about your ego
it's about veganism and what you were
what you just said reminded me of that
can you explain that a little bit yeah
you got all day
[Laughter]
[Music]